Project: Supply Chain Optimization & Demand Forecasting Dashboard
Objective
To build an interactive dashboard that helps in optimizing supply chain processes and forecasting product demand, with features to predict potential disruptions and provide real-time "what-if" scenario analysis. This dashboard can assist businesses in making informed decisions regarding inventory management, supplier reliability, and demand planning.

Key Features
Demand Forecasting

Purpose: Predict future demand based on historical data.
Method:
Uses a 7-day moving average for simple forecasting.
Predicts demand for a specified period (7-30 days) with confidence intervals.
Visualizes historical and forecasted demand using Plotly interactive charts.
Inputs:
Product_ID: Select a product to view its demand forecast.
forecast_days: Number of days to forecast ahead.
Inventory Recommendations

Purpose: Provide automated recommendations on whether to restock based on current inventory levels.
Logic:
If Inventory_Level is below Reorder_Threshold, a warning is issued to restock.
If inventory is sufficient, a success message is displayed.
Inputs:
Inventory_Level: Current inventory for the selected product.
Reorder_Threshold: Minimum stock level that triggers a restock recommendation.
Potential Supply Chain Disruptions

Purpose: Highlight potential risks in the supply chain based on supplier reliability and lead time.
Logic:
Long Lead_Time and low Supplier_Reliability indicate higher disruption risks.
Provides product-specific disruption warnings.
Inputs:
Lead_Time: Estimated delivery time (in days).
Supplier_Reliability: Supplier’s reliability percentage (e.g., 70%-99%).
Real-Time What-If Scenario Analysis

Purpose: Simulate different supply chain scenarios to observe their impact in real time.
Functionality:
Adjust inputs like Lead_Time, Supplier_Reliability, and forecast_days to see how forecasts and recommendations change dynamically.
Use Cases:
Assess the impact of supplier delays on inventory levels.
Understand the effect of increased or decreased reliability on disruption risks.
Interactive Data Visualization

Tools: Plotly for dynamic charts and Streamlit for the interface.
Visuals:
Historical demand charts with forecast overlays.
Alerts and messages for inventory and disruptions.
Dataset Details
The dataset used in the project contains the following columns:

Column Name	Description
Date	Date of the sales record
Product_ID	Unique identifier for the product
Units_Sold	Number of units sold on the given date
Sales_Price	Price per unit of the product
Inventory_Level	Current inventory level for the product
Reorder_Threshold	Minimum inventory level before a restock is needed
Lead_Time	Estimated delivery time (in days)
Supplier_Reliability	Supplier’s reliability percentage (70%-99%)
Steps to Run the Project
Set Up the Environment

Install dependencies using pip:

pip install streamlit pandas numpy plotly

Prepare the Dataset

Ensure you have the updated dataset (supply_chain_updated_data.csv) with all required columns.
Run the Streamlit App

Navigate to the project directory in your terminal.
Execute the following command:

streamlit run supply_chain.py

Interact with the Dashboard

Use the sidebar to:
Select a Product.
Choose Forecast Period (7-30 days).
View:
Demand Forecast Charts.
Inventory Recommendations.
Disruption Warnings.
What-If Scenario Analysis.
Enhancements & Customizations
Additional Dashboard Elements:

Cost Analysis: Calculate total inventory holding costs.
Supplier Performance Charts: Visualize supplier performance over time.
Order Lead Time Trends: Track changes in delivery times.
Advanced Forecasting Models:

Implement models like ARIMA, Prophet, or LSTM for more accurate demand predictions.
Real-Time Data Integration:

Connect with live databases or APIs for real-time supply chain data updates.
This solution offers a comprehensive and customizable tool for supply chain management, helping businesses optimize inventory, anticipate disruptions, and simulate various operational scenarios efficiently.